You argue that the timing is now for
policymakers to allow for a stronger
currency. Just tell us some in terms of
the timing, why now?
Yes.
Uh well, I think you know, if you look
at the RMB at real effective
terms, that's what determines
uh you know, a currency's
competitiveness.
You should we shouldn't focus very
narrowly on the nominal exchange rate.
We should probably look at the real
effective terms.
On real effective terms, RMB has been on
its weakest since 2012.
Uh I think for the past 10 years, it's
depreciated about 16%. On the other
hand, if you look at the US dollar,
US dollar on real effective terms is the
strongest in the almost past 40 years.
You know, we know the this year is not a
particularly good year for the dollar
because
in the beginning of the year, in
January, the DXY index hit 110.
Now it's about 100. It's not a weak
dollar yet, but I think you know, if you
really look at the exchange rate, you
should focus on real effective terms.
So, that means
the RMB is really has a good purchasing
power.
As the purchasing power, you know, in
in easy understandable terms, you can
look at the Big Mac Index. You can look
at the you know, now people look at the
you know, the McDonald's Index. Now
people look at the Four Seasons Index,
right? Four Seasons Hotel Index. In New
York and Washington, D.C., the standard
the standard nightly rate is like almost
$2,000.
But in in Beijing, it's like $200. So,
that shows that RMB has a lot of
purchasing power.
As regards to the question, why now?
I think you know, there are three forces
joined together.
Fundamentals,
um
you see how competitive the Chinese
economy is, how resilient it is.
And then policy-wise,
um
I think both PBC and US Federal Reserve
are under pressure to ease.
Um but probably you know, the Federal
Reserve are going to
to move even on bigger terms. You know,
the news just break out, you know, they
probably have a a new Fed chair.
And then last but not least, we also
need to look at um
the positions or capital flows.
Um this is towards the year end. Towards
the year end, I think you know, there is
some um
currencies or
you know, export revenues need to be
shifted back to to to homeland. So,
all in all I'm saying is
exchange rate should be determined by
market forces. And then all these three
market forces, whether it's fundamentals
or interest rate or is it positions
capital flows,
they just you know, maybe towards the
year end, they just amplify and combine
each other. That's what make it a good
timing to let market decide. Market
decide doesn't mean it's just one-way
one-way trade, right? Market decide
means it can be a two-way volatility. It
can be you know,
a stronger RMB or can be also at times,
you know, if you know, the the tides
shift and it can be also a you know,
weaker. It doesn't mean just one-way
straight up.
Wouldn't a stronger currency run counter
to
the efforts to
reinflate
the economy and looking at price
pressures? That isn't that isn't that
deflationary and how do you how do you
square those two things? Definitely. Uh
I think you know, this is the biggest
concern that you know, if you have a I
mean, classic textbook will tell you if
you are have a inflation problem, right?
Deflation problem, you need to have a
weaker currency, right? Um but what I'm
saying is there's no magic bullet or
panacea. Exchange rate is definitely
like panacea for everything. Exchange
rate is just you know, mostly for
external balance.
So, that we should we shouldn't read it
in isolation. Okay. Uh we should
you know, we should have for
China's low inflation,
the cure really lies fiscal expense on
fiscal stimulus. So, combined with
monetary easing and the fiscal stimulus,
then you will have both uh
higher inflation, also a stronger
currency. Only that is possible. If you
if you look at how the US
get out of the low inflation um
post-COVID, Yeah. it's both
monetary easing and the fiscal easing.
But they probably have
you know, they probably overdid it a
little bit, so they have a
inflation too high. Yeah. But before
COVID, for the 10 years, they tried
everything mostly on the monetary side,
QE from QE1 to QE4.
Inflation was stop-start. It was never
above 2%. Yeah. Only with
a big massive fiscal easing,
US finally hit, you know, above target.
And then
in the initial stage, people's response
was that wow, they have huge fiscal
easing, fiscal deficit. That means a
weak dollar.
It turned out not to be true, right?
Dollar is is is we have a strong dollar,
not a weak dollar. That shows if you
have fiscal easing, you actually we
actually not reduce interest rate. You
actually kick the interest up. That
helps attract capital flows. That help,
you know,
a stronger currency. So, my advice or
suggestion is really you shouldn't take
it in isolation. It's a combination of
monetary and fiscal easing. It only in
that case, you will have a stronger RMB
and also, you know,
get out of the low inflation zone.
What what sort of pace of of
appreciation do you think is appropriate
because there is this concern that this
could actually hurt exports, which could
then weigh on growth at a moment when
exports is something that is still quite
resilient in this economy. Yeah. Um
you know,
20 years ago, there was an argument that
because on average Chinese export, the
profit margin is only 3%.
So, the argument goes that you know, the
appreciation pace should never be above
3% a year.
That argument turned out to be you know,
to prove to be very wrong because you
see that
Chinese export doing so well. That
argument you know, its average doesn't
mean everything. There's some companies
doing very well is above average. Some
company doing you know, not as well as
average. This is
This is market forces, right? They They
the strongest the the fittest survives.
So, I think it's similar today.
Uh I think Chinese companies so
competitive,
a very modest appreciation
wouldn't hurt their competitiveness.
Uh
similarly to the argument that David
just mentioned, a gradual, you know,
appreciation, I don't think it would be
a a big headwind to inflation as well.
This helps the I want to talk about the
the broader longer-term effort to
internationalize currency. It certainly
a stronger one, a more valuable one
pushes that narrative. I think there was
news we talked about this during the
commercial break. Russia was issuing
yuan bonds, of course. And I want to get
to when do you think
and what needs to happen for the Chinese
currency to become at some point a
reserve currency?
>> Yeah.
Well, I think Chinese currency is
already a reserve currency. It's not a
dominant reserve currency yet because
you know, um RMB joined the SDR basket
uh 10 years ago. So, if you are in SDR
basket, you are a de facto a reserve
currency. Yeah. But you're not a
dominant reserve currency. The share is
still very low, like 2 to 3%.
Uh for that to happen,
I think you know, a few things. Um in
the past, there were there were two tail
tail headwinds to RMB
internationalization.
Number one is RMB is high interest rate
currency.
You know, Chinese 10-year bond is at 3
to 4%. US was a low interest rate. So,
for foreigners to
to issue debt, issue bond in RMB is very
or to borrow in RMB is very costly. Now
that has shifted around.
Chinese 10-year bond is 1.6 or 1.8%.
1.8% today. So, it's cheaper to borrow
in RMB. So, that's
from headwind to tailwind.
Number two,
um for the past several years, RMB has
been under depreciation pressure because
of the interest rate gap. You know, US
is high interest rate. Now US is low
interest rate.
Now I think you know, this year is under
pressure to appreciate. So, if you you
know, if you want to hold RMB asset, you
want it to be an appreciating currency.
So, I think that has also shifted. RMB
is now, you know, show more promise to
be a you know, appreciating currency
supported by fundamentals, by
competitiveness. Um
so, my maybe you know, if you I want to
add one more point, it's really um
we need to I think we can, you know, um
open up
further. Yeah. Uh a you know, a a
two-way street. Um foreigners can access
Chinese market much easier and the
Chinese resident can access Hong Kong
market, you know, through this two-way
connect. Um
and then there's also a a technical but
important technical issue. Um many
investors I talked to, they also
complain that you know, there's not many
Chinese bonds to
to to to to to be bought. Okay. Yeah,
supply issue. Yeah, supply issue. Cuz a
lot of um
Chinese companies or
commercial banks,
they are in this buy and hold mode. They
buy the 10-year Chinese government bond
and they hold on the balance sheet. So,
they they you know, they don't change
hands.
Uh I think it
we should issue more bonds both
on the domestic market and on the
offshore market to to supply the safe
assets. Yeah. Uh you also mentioned when
it comes to why we need a stronger RMB
now is is the need to stoke domestic
demand, consumption as well. We heard a
little bit of that in that uh 15th year
15th 5-year plan.
>> What needs to be done still to to boost
consumption?
Yeah. I think you know, consumption is
really a function of two things, right?
It's how much you earn and how much you
plan to spend.
Um both depends on expectation.
Now on income,
uh it's really three things.
It's your labor income,
your asset income, and your transfer
income from the government.
Um now
labor income is around 60%. I think it
to boost labor income you really to have
to have a strong job market. But I want
to focus on the second bit is the
transfer income. The transfer income
represent 20%.
I think the transfer income has slowed
down very dramatically in the past 2
years because of local government
difficulties because of land sales has
you know almost halfed. Land sales has
has come down a huge. Um so I think you
know
that's also linked to my previous
argument that central government need to
step in to do more fiscal easing to help
local government to help the transfer
income. So that's on the income side.
And then on the
uh the willingness to spend
I think we are still 2 cent
on in terms of marginal propensity to
consume.
So an average Chinese they earn $1
before COVID they spend
68 cent.
Today they only spend 66 cent. So it's
about 2 cent short. They don't
um underestimate how much how important
the 2 cent is because consumption is
more than half of the China GDP. So 2
cent is actually very meaningful. So
that you know I think it's really there
still some
cautiousness
in people's consumption decision making.
So that I think is something to do with
uh how can we reduce this precautionary
saving? How can we boost the social
safety net? Um
almost a month ago I came to your show I
talked about you know uh importantness
to to have a you know more inclusive
social safety net especially for people
retiring in rural area. I think that's
still the way to go.
Uh I have a final question for you
looking at next year. Yeah. Most of the
allocations into the equity market
>> Yeah. have been to Hong Kong. Mhm. How
do you inform investors need to think
about allocating more to the A share
market? To the A share market.
Um
well I think you know
if you look at the
valuation
um
right now
it
previously is always A share market is
more expensive compared to A share
market right? Now it's actually the
other way around. A share market it
looks even cheaper. Mhm. Um
if you look at the equity risk premium
the uh sh
Shanghai Shenzhen
composite index equity risk premium is a
5%
5% is historic average. It's not
expensive it's not cheap.
Hong Kong depends on
what you look at. If you look at the US
Treasury as the risk free rate then it's
like a 4% equity risk premium it's a bit
expensive. Yeah. But if you use
renminbi
a 10 year bond as a risk free rate
it's 6% that's still cheap. So I would
say
um
whether you allocate in Hong Kong on the
tech sector
>> Yeah. or you allocate in mainland I
think it's
all both are good strategies. Yeah. Uh
to me um
you know this is a
big global monetary order reset is still
in the process. Okay. Uh money are
coming to China whether it's mainland
and Hong Kong. I by the way last time we
know we we also talked about the you
know whether the the AI bubble etc.
I I think it's it's this is
nobody knows. Yeah. It's you know
detecting bubble in real time is
impossible. The market can stay
irrational longer than you can stay
liquid. But what I can say is
um
you look at two things
whether it's a boosting productivity and
whether there's borrowed money involved
other people's money involved. I think
this time is probably different in the
sense that
very little leverage being used there
and then I do feel I'm from my own
personal experience AI is changing
people's life changing me as a
strategist you know as a economist life
as well you know in the way of coming
here. Right. I used to ask my assistant
I now no use assistant I just use my AI
to find the numbers. Now now I'm curious
to see if your assistant has a future in
the company. Maybe we can talk about
that next time. Dr. Miao let's talk in
the new year. Thank you so much. Thank
you for the time.